Date Assigned: October 23, 2025
Date Submitted: October 31, 2025

The first part of this case study asked students to create a presentation aid using a topic from one of the previous case studies. The objective was to create an effective powerpoint presentation using proper data visualization techniques. For my presentation aid, I revisited the standardized entropy studies on run/pass playcalling in the NFL on 3rd and 4th and 2 plays in 2024. The data used for this presentation aid can be found in the Case Study 1 and Case Study 5 folders within this repository. I used Tableau to create the data visualizations from the Excel files and Microsoft PowerPoint to organize the presentation aid. The Tableau workbook can also be found within this repository.

The second part of this case study asked students to create a report using a second topic from one of the previous case studies. For my report, I revisited Game 1 of the 1995 NBA Finals, where Nick Anderson missed four free throws in a row with a chance to put the Houston Rockets away. Of course, the Rockets tied the game to force overtime, won Game 1 in the extra period, and won the 1995 NBA Finals after these misses. The data for this report can be found in the Case Study 2 and Case Study 3 folders within this repository. I used Microsoft Word and its Equation feature to create this report. My objective was to report on a Bayesian approach that investigated whether Nick Anderson choked or got unlucky in the final moments of this basketball game.